{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2576
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red93\green108\blue121;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red14\green14\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c36526\c42188\c47515;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0\c85000;
\csgenericrgb\c5500\c5500\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww30500\viewh14760\viewkind0
\deftab741
\pard\tx741\pardeftab741\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 ############################################################################################\cf4 \
\cf2 #-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\cf4 \
\cf2 # Mollis Personal Picochess versions\cf4 \
\cf2 #-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\cf4 \
\cf2 # The following enhancements to the 0.9N version have been implemented:\cf4 \
\cf2 #        0.  Version set to 1.0 (finally ;-)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        1.  Voice announcements even if time < 1 minute\cf4 \
\cf2 #        2.  Possibility to continue playing even if one player runs out of time\cf4 \
\cf2 #        3.  Pre-Moves: Computer and user moves can be done in rapid sequence\cf4 \
\cf2 #            (no need to wait for registration of computer move). Even the\cf4 \
\cf2 #            own move could be played before computer move - it doesn't matter\cf4 \
\cf2 #        4.  New flexible ponder mode: no more checks if valid moves, position can\cf4 \
\cf2 #            be setup without any restrictions (of course it must be a legal one)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            Makes analysis and playing differenet variants much easier\cf4 \
\cf2 #        5.  Remote mode working again (without room handling, see menue.py)\cf4 \
\cf2 #\cf4 \
\cf2 #-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\cf4 \
\cf2 #        6.  Version set to 2.0\cf4 \
\cf2 #        7.  Framework for adding (more or less funny) speech comments based on\cf4 \
\cf2 #            various events\cf4 \
\cf2 #        8.  Rolling display of time/score/depth/hintmove in Ponder On or Normal Mode\cf4 \
\cf2 #        9.  Continue directly after start with an interrupted game if board still shows\cf4 \
\cf2 #            last position by reading the last games pgn file\cf4 \
\cf2 #        10. New cool training mode with training options (with big thanks to Wilhelm!!!)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        11. Configuration parameters for all 1.00/2.00 enhancements in picochess.ini\cf4 \
\cf2 #        12. Various bug fixes (eg. pressing the outer buttons for quick restart\cf4 \
\cf2 #            instead of shutdown like it was intended, calc. error in evaluation)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            Again: big thanks to Wilhelm!\cf4 \
\cf2 #        13. Renaming of the play modes! Now we have:\cf4 \
\cf2 #            New mode name                                         Old mode name\cf4 \
\cf2 #            a5 NORMAL (rolling info display off by default)       NORMAL\cf4 \
\cf2 #            b5 PONDER ON (rolling info display on by default)     BRAIN\cf4 \
\cf2 #            c5 MOVE HINT                                          ANALYSIS\cf4 \
\cf2 #            d5 EVAL.SCORE                                         KIBITZ\cf4 \
\cf2 #            e5 OBSERVE                                            OBSERVE\cf4 \
\cf2 #            f5 ANALYSIS (flexible option on by default)           PONDER\cf4 \
\cf2 #            g5 TRAINING (this is new in 2.00)                       -\cf4 \
\cf2 #            h5 REMOTE (working again from 1.00 on)                REMOTE\cf4 \
\cf2 #\cf4 \
\cf2 #-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\cf4 \
\cf2 #        14. Version set to 2.01\cf4 \
\cf2 #        15. Added possibility to change voice volume via menu and picochess.ini\cf4 \
\cf2 #\cf4 \
\cf2 #-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\cf4 \
\cf2 #        16. Version set to 3.0 (a really big one ;-)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            I think most of the enhancements only make sense running on a Revelation II (or at least\cf4 \
\cf2 #            a DGTPI with better display capabilities. Especially on a Revelation II it is really fun\cf4 \
\cf2 #            to read game comments or the opening name etc. while this is exhausting on a DGTPI and awful\cf4 \
\cf2 #            on a standalone DGT Clock with its 8 chars)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            Some features (like tournament control or PicoTutor) even wouldn't correctly work on stand\cf4 \
\cf2 #            alone clocks together with picochess because the display can not show the correct time control\cf4 \
\cf2 #            setting.\cf4 \
\cf2 #            Furthermore additional libraries must be installed, a bug must be fixed in the python-chess\cf4 \
\cf2 #            code itself(!) for the tournament control option and you need additional engines for some\cf4 \
\cf2 #            of the new feature (don't ask me where to get them or where you can get an image etc.)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!\cf4 \
\cf2 #            !!! Keep in mind: I did these enhancements in this Personal Version for my own pleasure\cf4 \
\cf2 #            !!! in order to have fun & play with picochess on my Revelation 2 - so it might be not\cf4 \
\cf2 #            !!! your cup of tea...\cf4 \
\cf2 #            !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!\cf4 \
\cf2 #        17. Support for Online Engines\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - Switch to Online Mode if online engine is choosen (engine name starts with\cf4 \
\cf2 #               Prefix 'Online')\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - Time control settings are taken from the online server challenge and are\cf4 \
\cf2 #               applied automatically as current time control settings\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - Clocks start after first white and black moves. After this the player's time already\cf4 \
\cf2 #               starts with the annoucement of the best move and no longer when\cf4 \
\cf2 #               the computer move has been done by the user (other than that no real sync with server\cf4 \
\cf2 #               times has been implemented)\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - Online decrement: In order to better "sync" picochess times with online server times\cf4 \
\cf2 #               you can subtract X seconds after each own move from your remaining game time in\cf4 \
\cf2 #               picochess.ini, default value is 0.9s\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - additional online info messages (login, seeking, opponent name, game result)\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - new online seek in case of 'start new game' event\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - Online move is automatically played in case of white = online opponent and clock starts\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - last move is published to online engine in case of game ending to inform the online\cf4 \
\cf2 #               server\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - online player names in pgn file(s) instead of engine or pico user name only\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - Online engines won't be saved in picochess.ini as last engine\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - picochess.ini "Online decrement" parameter can be overwritten in online uci files via parameter\cf4 \
\cf2 #               OnlineDecrement (just add "[DEFAULT]  OnlineDecrement = X"\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - still work in progress (don't ask me when they are ready to play...):\cf4 \
\cf2 #               - basic FICS online engine (for this TELNET must have been installed, default!?)\cf4 \
\cf2 #               - very basic lichess online engine (for this the BESERK package must have been installed)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        18. (Better) support for MAME emulated chess engines\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - requirement: new SDL libraries (probably different for BUSTER)\cf4 \
\cf2 #                            and Q5 library must have been installed\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - newer mame/mess versions do need BUSTER!\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - longer startup time for mame engines necessary, voice/sound end messages from mame engine\cf4 \
\cf2 #               last ending move is published to emulator engine in case of game end for specific engines\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - "engine setup" message because of longer initializing phase of mame chess engines\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - support for pico timecontrol setting in uci file settings according to mame engine levels\cf4 \
\cf2 #               (just define the UCI parameter PicoTimeControl X Y Z in your level settings) and time is set\cf4 \
\cf2 #               automatically after choosing a level\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - When switching back to non mame engine time settings are reset to last setting before it has been\cf4 \
\cf2 #               eventually changed by the uci setting (default time setting can be defined in picochess.ini\cf4 \
\cf2 #               via parameter def-timectrl when having a mame engine as last engine after startup)\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - automatic reset of the original time control settings after choosing a non mame/mess engine\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - mame engine should not be saved as last used engine on a DGTPI because of possible clock problems when\cf4 \
\cf2 #               starting mame engine directly after boot (very strange maybe a sync problem with dgtpicom lib!?)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        19. Finally: practical support of remote engines and local engines at the same time(!)\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - IMPORTANT! For windows server access an update of the spur and paraminko packages and a\cf4 \
\cf2 #               modification of the spur package are necessary (ssh.py must be replaced from a different repository)\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - name in engine.ini must start with prefix 'remote_'\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - implemented via standard ssh connection, just add the remote login infos\cf4 \
\cf2 #               in the corresponding parameters of picochess.ini and your remote engine in engines.ini\cf4 \
\cf2 #               and make sure SSH server is running on your remote computer (default on MacOS)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        20. Automatic takeback mode (only for mame engines) in case of a blunder move with active PicoTutor\cf4 \
\cf2 #            (PicoWatcher must be switched on)\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - Normally taking back moves when using mame engine is not possible so this is a nice feature for\cf4 \
\cf2 #               beginners (like me ;-) who often play against mame engines.\cf4 \
\cf2 #             - only the last blunder move can be taken back when using mame (of course this restriction is not\cf4 \
\cf2 #               valid for other native uci engines!)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        21. Bugfix: Set correct (old) engine (name) in case of engine error (very important for\cf4 \
\cf2 #                    new remote/online engines which sould easily fail if server is not available)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        22. Taking back moves: Now the next move which could be taken back is shown in display and\cf4 \
\cf2 #            in long notation format (good for old people like me ;-)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        23. After start up and new game events the current chosen engine is shown in the display\cf4 \
\cf2 #            (setting in display menu & config parameter in picochess.ini)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        24. Support for correct remaining game times for continued games from version 2 (finally!)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        25. Synthesized voice support for moves in WebServer (unfortunately works only in desktop\cf4 \
\cf2 #            browsers and in Android Firefox browser): Big thanks to Martin (author of the ingenious\cf4 \
\cf2 #            TuroChamp python engine) and deletion of the non working remote room button functionality\cf4 \
\cf2 #            Of course you can still use the remote play mode functionality (re)introduced since 2.0 and\cf4 \
\cf2 #            the new handling of remote engines)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        26. Replay of PGN games (semi automatic) via new engine\cf4 \
\cf2 #            - Semi automatic replay of saved pgn games with hint move/score evaluation by an analysis engine\cf4 \
\cf2 #              for a specific thinking period (time settings will be changed according to uci file and changed\cf4 \
\cf2 #              back automatically)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            - "Guess that move" game option for white or black (switch "guessing" sides by pressing the lever)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            - Additionally this pgn replay mode can be used to train opening books when setting\cf4 \
\cf2 #              an empty pgn file with name 'Book Test' and choosing a specific book in menu: just try and play\cf4 \
\cf2 #              a move you think belongs to the chosen book opening (makes more sense when you create specific books\cf4 \
\cf2 #              with a specific theme or famous player moves)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            - Furthermore an audio comment file for the pgn file can be specified and will be automatically\cf4 \
\cf2 #              played during the pgn game replay and can be manually started and stopped during the match\cf4 \
\cf2 #              (I did this because I have a (german) genious radio play "Nahrungsaufnahme w\'e4hrend der Zeitnotphase"\cf4 \
\cf2 #               which is playing in real time during a tournament game. Now I can listen to the radio play and\cf4 \
\cf2 #               watch the game at the same time with picochess - how cool is that!?\cf4 \
\cf2 #            - PGN Replay engine settings won't be saved in picochess.ini as last engine \cf4 \
\cf2 #        27. Enhancement of supported tags in pgn file: opening eco code, pico remaining times, pico time\cf4 \
\cf2 #            control setting\cf4 \
\cf2 #        28. For online-, emulation- and pgn-mode: Automatically switch off opening books (setting "no book"\cf4 \
\cf2 #            as book option)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        29. Override pgn location from picochess.ini in case the parameter 'location' is set to\cf4 \
\cf2 #            something different than 'auto' (you can use this if you always get a wrong auto\cf4 \
\cf2 #            location).\cf4 \
\cf2 #        30. Basic chess tutor functionality (even in case the choosen engine does not support\cf4 \
\cf2 #            score & hint moves like almost all mame emulated engines) with the following 3\cf4 \
\cf2 #            functions (disabled in Online mode)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            a) Pico Watcher (checks your moves and returns ??, ?, !?, ?!, !, !!)\cf4 \
\cf2 #               You can change the control limits for the evalutations in file picotutor_constants.py\cf4 \
\cf2 #            b) Pico Coach (gives position score and move hint(s) - just lift a piece and put it back into\cf4 \
\cf2 #               the same position)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            c) Pico Opening Explorer (displays current opening name (alternative) independet of the\cf4 \
\cf2 #               used opening book\cf4 \
\cf2 #        31. Tournament time control settings:\cf4 \
\cf2 #            Possible time control settings in picochess v3.0:\cf4 \
\cf2 #            time = m, time = g i, time = n g i  or time = n g1 i g2\cf4 \
\cf2 #            Examples:\cf4 \
\cf2 #            time = ... 7   (time per move, eg. m = 7 seconds)\cf4 \
\cf2 #                       5 0 (game time, eg. Blitz g = 5 min. and 0 seconds increment)\cf4 \
\cf2 #                       5 3 (game time g= 5 min. plus I = 3 sec. increment)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            Tournament time control settings: n moves in g1 minutes (plus I increment seconds) and rest\cf4 \
\cf2 #            of the game in g2 minutes\cf4 \
\cf2 #            time = ...\cf4 \
\cf2 #            new:   40 5 0 (n = 40 moves in g = 5 minutes)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            new:   40 5 3 ((n = 40 moves in g= 5 minutes with I = 3s Fischer inc.)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            new:   40 60 0 30 (n = 40 moves in g1 = 90 minutes, I = 0 seconds increment and rest of the game in g2 = 30 minutes)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            **************\cf4 \
\cf2 #            * Important: *\cf4 \
\cf2 #            **************\cf4 \
\cf2 #            for this a python-chess bug in 22.1 version must have been fixed to support the\cf4 \
\cf2 #            movestogo go command option correctly!\cf4 \
\cf2 #            If you have a higher python version look there (eg. 3.7 on BUSTER)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            (in file /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/chess/uci.py:\cf4 \
\cf2 #             line 949  original:   if movestogo is not None and movestogo > 0:\cf4 \
\cf2 #                       changed to: if movestogo is not None and int(movestogo) > 0:\cf4 \
\cf2 #             That was not so easy to figure out...)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        32. Possibility to directly play an alternative move for the engine on the board after the engine move\cf4 \
\cf2 #            has been displayed in NORMAL mode (like in TRAINING mode or the DGT CENTAUR chess computer)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            (setting in menu and config para)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        33. Menu for saving, reading and continuing a game from pgn files (yes, finally!)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            *** IMPORTANT ***\cf4 \
\cf2 #            In order to load and continue a saved game you will need to use the webserver in order to set up\cf4 \
\cf2 #            the correct starting position of the game. For this you must open the webserver page BEFORE\cf4 \
\cf2 #            you read and restore the game or if not just use the sync button!\cf4 \
\cf2 #        34. Display of the book opening name(s) (function of the PicoTutor)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        35. New time control setting: Support of a specific max. search depth (with a fixed\cf4 \
\cf2 #            countdown movetime of 11:11 (unfortunately counting up the clock is not possible)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        36. Support of written game comments like it used to be in Boris or Sargon 2.5 MGS old chess computers\cf4 \
\cf2 #        37. Display of pgn event, players & result when loading an existing game\cf4 \
\cf2 #        38. Enhancements of REV2 and webserver display of moves/evaluation/depth/score\cf4 \
\cf2 #        39. Display of \'84new position\'93 message in case of analysis mode and user sets up\cf4 \
\cf2 #            a new position instead of playing an legal move (or in case he plays an illegal\cf4 \
\cf2 #            move which is seen as a new position)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        40. Removed use of vorbis ogg player because of audio play conflicts with sound from\cf4 \
\cf2 #            mame chess engines in picotalker.py and OS update problems and missing start/stop/pause\cf4 \
\cf2 #            functions(now pygame.mixer is used instead), see <\cf5 https://www.pygame.org/docs/ref/mixer.html\cf2 >\cf4 \
\cf2 #            install additional lib via: "sudo apt-get install python3-pygame"\cf4 \
\cf2 #        50. Three new voices (one with commentary): Daniel (eng.), Boris (eng. with commentary)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            and Gust (german). Additinal voice samples (eng./german) for the new picochess V3.0\cf4 \
\cf2 #            feature which can be put additionally in all existing voice folders\cf4 \
\cf2 #        51. Specific 'set pieces' sound (no voice) so you hear when something wrong with the board position\cf4 \
\cf2 #        52. Set opponent pgn player to 'Player B' instead of engine name and user name ro 'Player A'\cf4 \
\cf2 #            in case of 'Observe Mode'\cf4 \
\cf2 #        53. No more searchmoves in UCI 'go' command for the engine in case normal moves (exception:\cf4 \
\cf2 #            Alternative moves), otherwise this might cause problems with the use of internal\cf4 \
\cf2 #            engine books etc.(thanks to Rasmus for the hint)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        54. BugFix for Buster: Change of voice volume working again (big thanks to Wilhelm!)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        55. New (Fischer) "simulated" median move time levels: 5s, 10s, 15s, 20s, 30s, 60s, 90s\cf4 \
\cf2 #            (thanks to the schachcomputer.info Forum for this idea!)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        56. New "favorite engines" options: It is nice to have all 60 and more engines installed\cf4 \
\cf2 #            but it is a pain to select one out of these many engines...\cf4 \
\cf2 #            => new Favorite menu to keep your main and most often used engine separately.\cf4 \
\cf2 #               just put your favorite engines into the favorite.ini file liek you would do for the\cf4 \
\cf2 #               main engine list in engine.ini and put it in the correct egine directory - that's it\cf4 \
\cf2 #               *** IMPORTANT ***\cf4 \
\cf2 #               Engines in favorite.ini must also appear in engines.ini!!!\cf4 \
\cf2 #        57. BugFix: Continue game/load saved game and play in opposite board direction fixed\cf4 \
\cf2 #        58. Support of engine subfolders: you can now organize your engines in subfolders\cf4 \
\cf2 #            within the main engine folder (just specify the subfolder path in engines.ini in\cf4 \
\cf2 #            in front of the filename eg. [MAME/mm5] where MAME is a subfolder within the armv7l\cf4 \
\cf2 #            folder (thanks to Wilhelm for supporting the correct engine startup loading procedure!)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        59. Fix for the strange clock times reset "bug" when playing without a clock with just a board,\cf4 \
\cf2 #            PI and the webserver. With the voice move announcements of the webserver in V3.0 we even\cf4 \
\cf2 #            don't have to look at the webserver screen when playing... (thanks to Marcel Swidde for\cf4 \
\cf2 #            the fix in the picochess google groups forum)\cf4 \
\cf2 #        60. Position correction message after the "Set pieces" error message occurs the second time:\cf4 \
\cf2 #            assuming that you are lost and don't know where to put the piece to its correct position,\cf4 \
\cf2 #            picochess will tell you what is wrong and how to correct (if you have your PI hooked up\cf4 \
\cf2 #            into your WLAN you could just check the correct position with the webserver board display\cf4 \
\cf2 #            by just pressing the Sync button of the webserver).\cf4 \
\cf2 #            Picochess will stop the clocks and check its internal game position against the external\cf4 \
\cf2 #            DGT board position and will display two kind of correction messages:\cf4 \
\cf2 #            - Put w N f3 (=> put white night on f3)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            - Clear h5 (=> remove piece from h5)\cf4 \
\cf2 #            This will continue as long as the correct position has been set up.\cf4 \
\cf2 #\cf4 \
\cf2 ############################################################################################\cf4 \
}